---
title: PROBPROG 2021
layout: default
---

# Overview

- **Conference Dates**:  Wed Oct 20 2021 - Fri Oct 22 2021
- **Conference Location**: Online
- **Submission Deadline**: Thu May 6 2021 AOE

The third *International Conference on Probabilistic Programming (PROBPROG)* will be held online on Wednesday October 20, Thursday October 21, and Friday October 22.

# Program 

Probabilistic programming is an emergent field based on the idea that
probabilistic models can be efficiently represented as executable
code. This idea has enabled researchers to formalize, automate, and
scale up many aspects of modeling and inference; to make modeling and
inference accessible to a broader audience of developers and domain
experts; and to develop new programmable AI systems that integrate
modeling and inference approaches from multiple domains.

PROBPROG is the first international conference dedicated to
probabilistic programming. PROBPROG includes presentations on basic
research, applied research, open source, and the practice of
probabilistic programming. PROBPROG attendees come from academia,
industry, non-profits, and government. The conference aims to achieve
three goals:

1. **Create a venue where researchers from multiple fields** —
e.g. programming languages, statistics, machine learning, and
artificial intelligence — can meet, interact, and exchange ideas.

2. **Grow a diverse and inclusive probabilistic programming
community**, by actively seeking participation from under-represented
groups, and providing networking opportunities, mentorship, and
feedback to all members.

3. **Support the development of the practice of probabilistic
programming**, including open-source systems and real-world
applications, and provide a bridge between the practice of
probabilistic programming and basic research.

PROBPROG welcomes abstract submissions for contributed research
presentations, demonstrations, open-source systems, participants in
open discussions, and consideration for invited publication in an
online journal. Submissions should indicate alignment with one or more
of the following themes:

1. **Artificial and Natural Intelligence.** Probabilistic programs
and probabilistic programming technology for formulating and solving
the core problems of intelligence, including research relevant for
engineering artificial intelligence and for reverse-engineering
natural intelligence. A central theme in this track is new AI
architectures based on probabilistic programming that integrate
statistical, symbolic, neural, Bayesian, and simulation-based
approaches to knowledge representation and learning. Another central
theme is proposals for learning probabilistic programs from data, and
modeling high-level forms of human learning using probabilistic
program synthesis. This track also includes research at the
intersection of probabilistic programming and intelligence
augmentation, collective intelligence, machine learning, and the
development and analysis of intelligent infrastructure.

2. **Statistics and Data Analysis.** Probabilistic programs and
probabilistic programming technology for formulating and solving
problems in statistics and data analysis. Topics include latent
variable models, parameter estimation, automated data modeling,
Bayesian inference, calibration, model checking, model criticism,
visualization, and testing of statistical models and inference
algorithms. This track also includes statistical applications and
deployments of probabilistic programming for data analysis.

3. **Languages, Tools, and Systems.** The design, implementation, and
formal semantics of probabilistic programming languages and systems,
including domain-specific and general-purpose languages, interpreters,
compilers, probabilistic meta-programming techniques, probabilistic
meta-programming languages, and runtime systems. This track also
includes research on dynamic and static analysis of probabilistic
programs, and empirical and theoretical study of the usability,
performance, and accuracy of probabilistic programming languages and
systems.

4. **The Practice of Probabilistic Programming.** This track is
centered on four themes: **(i)** probabilistic programs and systems
based on probabilistic programming that solve problems in industry,
government, philanthropic work, applied research, and teaching, as
well as potential use cases for probabilistic programs or
probabilistic programming technology in these areas; **(ii)**
challenges that arise when using probabilistic programming in
practice, including inspection, debugging, testing, and performance
engineering; **(iii)** human-centric design of probabilistic programs
and probabilistic programming technology; and **(iv)** probabilistic
programming tools, probabilistic program analyses, probabilistic
programming styles/workflows, probabilistic programming
practices/guidelines/experience reports, and probabilistic programming
environments with the potential to address issues faced by
practitioners.

# Organizing Committee

## Program Chairs

- [Lawrence Murray](https://www.indii.org/) (Uber)
- [Guy Van den Broeck](https://web.cs.ucla.edu/~guyvdb/) (UCLA)

## General Chairs
- [Jean-Baptiste Tristan](http://jtristan.github.io) (Boston College)
- [Jan-Willem van de Meent](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/jwvdm/) (Northeastern University)

# Diversity

We are actively working to ensure that the PROBPROG conference is
inclusive in the broadest sense. In particular, we encourage
contributions from participants whose gender, sexual orientation,
and/or ethnic identities are underrepresented in the field.

We welcome feedback from the community on policies and measures that
help establish a venue that is welcoming to all participants. Please
direct such suggestions and comments to
[probprog-chairs@googlegroups.com](probprog-chairs@googlegroups.com).
